I'm just a couple minutes to talk a little bit about the show today.
Most of us have
It may be a little bit of understanding about what it means to be a shepherd. We can conclude easily that it's hard work and probably lonely work. And I don't think there was any isolation.
back in the day. Living here in Alberta, it's not hard to compare a shepherd to a rancher. And we know that ranchers face fears of
Predators and disease and theft and fluctuating markets and
terrible weather storms at the wrong times of year. A lot of
Their world maybe relates to the life of a shepherd, I suspect.
Another element that shepherding involved that maybe we can't fully connect to was the whole religious issue of ritual uncleanness.
But maybe in an era of
COVID shaming. Maybe we get a little taste of what it would have.
Felt like to be an outsider.
Some of us live with that reality we feel it every day.
shepherds were isolated not just because they lived in remote areas but because of the religious laws around uncleanness and there was no simple quarantine for fourteen days and all's well.
They were deemed to be untouchable, to be untouchable.
To a certain extent, extendable.
They were viewed perhaps very unfairly.
As undesirable and unclean and
Unimportant
Our presentation this weekend is about four shepherds, but more than that, it's about how do we navigate the disappointments
And the storms of life.
This is something that we can all relate to, not just in a COVID world, but in our everyday journeys.
Let me remind us of how the shepherds responded.
See if we see ourselves there.
O'som David's oldest, our older brother, was clearly a grumpy guy. Life was hard, he felt invisible, that nobody cared, nothing in his future looked promising, his brother singing drove him home.
You drove him crazy.
Or was it his optimism more than his voice? Ozone's reality was that there was little hope that things would ever get any better.
And then there's the other older brother, Abram. He was aware of the social stigma that was attached to shepherding.
But he didn't carry this isolation and hardship as a life sentence, did he?
He sees this as a trying time, but life will get better. He sees this as a rite of passage.
As a school to learn and grow and build character.
He's quick to remind his younger brother, Adam, that some shepherds lived well and even became
And sort of heroes of the bible
But shepherding prepared them for greatness.
Speaking of Adam, he's...
And let's look at his reaction to the circumstances and the situation. We see him accept the difficulty of shepherding, the cold nights, the social isolation being looked down upon by.
Upon by some in society.
Will he embrace?
Abrams hope.
Or will he let?
Despair
When the day like it was with ozone
This is not unlike what many of us feel, even in this age of pandemic.
Is it ever going to get better?
Can I really not be with my family?
For Christmas.
Does anybody really know what they're doing?
Out there, am I going to have a job to go to in the new year?
Could I get caught it?
In many ways, Adam was stuck between denial and despair.
As he tried to navigate the circumstances of his life.
But there's one more shepherd.
And this is just a
Gentle suggestion or
offer.
But maybe we want to learn.
from David. He was a realist.
He didn't have any illusions about shepherding.
And, you know, while Adam was early in his apprenticeship, David was nearing the end of his time learning. At the beginning of the play, Oza mentions that
He'll be leaving David on his own pretty soon.
So David understands that he's in for a lot of dark nights.
Lonely nights
Cold nights.
But he refuses to succumb to despair.
Much to his older brother, Chagrin,
David keeps finding hope in the midst of hardship.
He was a great singer-songwriter and sadly did most of his singing at night.
But it's in one of those songs, "No Outsiders," where we see David isn't just one of those "Don't Worry, Be Happy
Kind of guys that.
Seem to be disconnected from reality.
his song.
Included themes of fear and loneliness.
Messing home.
Feeling rejected.
And in the midst of those honest and vulnerable
Conclusions
He chooses to turn to God.
And Mary finds strength.
And hope.
So what will we do with the hardships and the disappointments and the restrictions?
I don't call it it won't last forever please lord um vaccines apparently are on route right now
But our struggles
If we're honest.
Go deeper than just a
Temporal.
Pandemic.
Life is amazing, but it's rarely simple.
Christ, he's come.
Disappointments linger.
Questions surface that we can't answer.
Sometimes we feel like outsiders.
And that we don't connect.
So I guess...
The question is which of the shepherds,
Do we want to be?
The one who lived in denial detached from reality.
Angry?
Unhappy?
Do we want to be the one who dwells on despair and
Cycles downward through life.
Do we want to be the one that says, that's hard, but one day it may be over?
And maybe we'll move on. Not the worst option.
But I think the play,
I think Bethlehem, the story of Christmas.
Gives us a better choice it's the one who says yes life is hard
And at times it's way past confusing.
But God is good.
And God is kind.
And even in the midst of uncertainty,
I'll make room for him to show up.
In my story.
Adam schnell, our playwright.
You mentioned this to me. He talked about how David points out to his brother that it's the longest, darkest night of the year. Yeah.
And of course,
Predictably, oilsum sees no comfort in that statement.
But David sees that the darkest moment
Is sort of a turning of the tide.
And that's how seasons work.
After winter solstice.
Whatever else happens.
The next day
Is a brighter
They.
And that's not just a metaphor, it's
It's scientific physical fact.
And just a few centuries after the birth of Jesus,
Adam talked about how our church fathers
made a really
Beautiful.
Decision whether they did it intentionally or stumbled into it it's brilliant
See, nobody really knew the exact day that Jesus was born and really didn't even know the month.
But they decided.
To celebrate Christmas.
The reality that Jesus came to change all of our stories. They decided to celebrate Christmas at that time of year.
When light begins to regain the upper hand.
And darknesses.
Chased away.
Into retreat.
Friends, I don't know if we're...
Nearing the end of the pandemic storm,
I think there's reasonable hope that
We are.
But regardless of the end of covid,
Or whatever other storm we might be facing.
We were given and
An invitation.
To look to Jesus.
And in him we find grace and we find hope.
And we find peace.
And we find courage.
We find forgiveness.
We find strength, we find
Resolve resiliency.
Perhaps this Christmas more than any other that we faced in a really long time.
We need to find a source of light.
And strength.
And peace of the deeper and stronger
And greater than anything this world has to offer us.
Jesus came to earth through the womb of a teenage girl.
In complete obscurity.
To grow and become the savior who heals our hearts.
And builds our hope.
I love that his arrival was first revealed to comet.
Shepherds.
There's a great lion and a great Christmas Carol.
that we're going to highlight this Christmas Eve and I hope you can join us.
And the line is this: "Come, shepherd."
Tank.
To own him.
Regardless of our station in life, from the lowest of the shepherds.
To the highest of royalty.
Jesus comes.
To us.
So let's not let COVID-19 or any other circumstantial storm
Rob us of the peace.
that Jesus came to bring.
May we, as the carol, invites us to own him.
Make room in our lives for him.
And trust him as our king and savior.
He came.
And he comes.
Let love eat.
Hearts.
And thrown him.
Father, we're so grateful.
For for
The story that we've witnessed.
That reminds us of the wonder of Christmas.
And the reality there are no outsiders.
In your kingdom.
You love all and came for all.
But you don't force yourself into our lives.
You say, come to me.
If you're weary and tired, burdened,
and I'll give you rest.
We're all a little weary and a little tired.
A little burdened and a little uncertain.
So
May we come to you to find rest.
And hope and peace and courage and strength.
Enjoy.
Like we like to sing about it this time of year
So have your hand upon each one. Thank you for the privilege.
of the story. Thank you for those who have presented it to us.
Thank you for Jesus.
May we make room in our hearts for him and not just this Christmas.
But in every moment.
At every turn.
We're grateful that you're here for us.
So we celebrate you and we give you thanks.
And we look to you
For peace and hope.
At this time of year.
And this we pray.
In the strong name of the one called savior Jesus
Amen.